# Utitlities

This folder contains helper utitlities for automating the task of processing XML files.

## countTODO.py
Counts how many times the `.. todo::` directive is used in the documentation. Used by GitHub Actions to make a badge.

## listPlaceableTypes.py
Searches through all XML files in a folder and its subfolders to identify the contents of `<placeableType>`. Used to
help sort out what types of placeables are in the game.

## listVehicleTypes.py
Simmilar to `listPLaceableTypes.py`, but instead searches through all vehicle XML files to identify the vehicle type.

## genXSD.sh
Runs through all of the folders generated by xmlTypeSorter and generates XSD files for each folder.

## refRemover.py
Runs through a supplied XSD file and flattens the XSD by moving referenced elements to be inline if they are only
referenced once.

## requirements.txt
List of required packages for the python scripts in this folder. Formatted to be used with the `pip` package manager.

## rootSizeCount.py
For a specified XML schema, finds the line count of all top level definitions. Used to help identify what parts of a
schema should be slimmed down.

## validateSorted.sh
Used to validate XML files of a specific category (categories are the folders that xmlTypeSorter.py places the files in)
and validates them against their corresponding schema file.

## validateXML.sh
A wrapper around `xmllint` to simplify validation of XML files against schemas. Abstracts away arguments, and redirects
stderr to stdout so that it can be piped to another program, such as grep.

## xmlTypeSorter.py
Searches through a supplied folder and its subfolders for XML files, and copies them into new folders, sorted by the
top level element in the XML file. Used to sort all of the XML configuration files in the game to then be processed by
`trang`